# Coronavirus-Disease-Analysis-using-Chest-X-Ray-Images-and-a-NovelDeep-Convolutional-Neural-Network
The recent emergence of a highly infectious and contagious respiratory viral disease known as COVID-19 has vastly impacted human lives and greatly burdened the health care system. Therefore, it is indispensable to develop a fast and accurate diagnostic system for timely identification of COVID-19 infected patients and to control its spread. This work proposes a new X-ray based COVID-19 classification framework consisting of (i) end-to-end classification module and (ii) deep feature-space based Machine Learning classification module. In this regard, two new custom CNN architectures, namely COVID-RENet-1 and COVID-RENet-2 are developed for COVID-19 specific pneumonia analysis by systematically employing Region and Edge base operations along with convolution operations. The synergistic use of Region and Edge based operations explores the region homogeneity, textural variations and region boundary; it thus helps in capturing the pneumonia specific pattern. In the first module, the proposed COVID-RENets are used for end-to-end classification. In the second module, the discrimination power is enhanced by jointly providing the deep feature hierarchies of the COVID-RENet-1 and COVID-RENet-2 to SVM for classification. The discrimination capacity of the proposed classification framework is assessed by comparing it against the standard state-of-the-art CNNs using radiologist’s authenticated chest X-ray dataset. The proposed classification framework shows good generalization (accuracy: 98.53%, F-score: 0.98, MCC: 0.97) with considerable high sensitivity (0.99) and precision (0.98). The exemplary performance of the classification framework suggests its potential use in other X-ray imagery based infectious disease analysis.  In this repository, we provide the MATLAB GUI and Testing Code for the Coronavirus Disease Analysis using Chest X-ray Images for the research community to use our research work.
